Alright. In this video, we are going to
take a closer look at using REST
template. And what I have on the screen
here right now, swagger documentation and
this is a public API used for testing. So
you can see that's an educational API
that we can exercise our use against and
test out using the rest template. So this
is real slick documentation. What I like
about is you can come in here and you
can interact with it and it tells you
exactly how to work with it. So you can
do a little try it out. It gives you a
curl command and also shows you the
response body there. And what we are
going to do is I've got a bunch of tests
set up inside of IntelliJ, so I'm going
to toggle over to that, so we just did
the test get categories. And here, I'm
gonna go ahead and run this one right
now. You can see that's going out and
getting the categories, so it did
exercise that and we can see that we got
back the same fruits, the same Json
object here, as we did here. So did pretty
print there but this is good enough for
our case because we didn't pretty print
the output. But essentially the same
Json objects that got back from that
test method. So we can also do a test of
get customers. And what I've done here,
you can see it at the top line 22, I've
set up the base URL and then I am
appending in the method that we are
gonna be using. So if I go ahead and run
this guy, I see that he went out there
and it did go out and get the actual
customers. And just like here, if I come
out so I can do a get a customers, say
try it out here, you can see that it does
output a variety of customers for us. Now
we're not just limited to using get
methods. We can also do it create a
customer. So let's take a quick look at
the documentation for the create. And in
this case, if we want to create a customer,
we want to do a post. And it shows that
we're gonna do a post with first name
last name. Now if I come over here
back to IntelliJ, if I come into credit
customer, what I'm doing here is I'm
going to use the API root plus the path
of customers, and I'm creating that rest
template there, and then next on line 55,
I'm creating a map object. So I'm saying
that I'm gonna have strings as my keys
and the map is contained objects. And this
gives me a quick handy way to create a
simple Java object that I can tell
Jackson to parse and to into JSON. So I'm
gonna pass that in. And on line 59, you
can see that I'm using the rest template.
I'm doing a post for an object and that
method of rest template is going to go
out exercise the URL and get back
the JSON that is responding
list. Now I could strongly type that to
an actual Java object, but here, I'm using
JSON node. And this is an object that
represents structured JSON within the
Jackson library. So if I come in here, you
can see that this is right out Jackson,
out of the Jackson data binding
libraries and this gives me a way to
represent JSON object that's been
responded back from the API. So I'm not
going to be working with it anyway.
But this is just a handy way to get am
I'm taking generic JSON. Now you saw
before where we set up the actual
objects to bind to here I'm kind of
skipping over this step I'm using a
generic one. So let's go ahead and create
a customer, and we can see that it runs
and I went in credit Joe Buck and it got
an ID of 367 there. So we can see that,
that did work for us. I see if we can
actually see that here. I come in and do
get customers. Try it out, and it looks
like we're getting limited there, for
some reason. But if...let's see here. I
have a get.
We did to do a get of 367 right? So I
come here and try it out. We'll see that
is the customer that I just created
via the API. So now we can also update a
customer. So in this case here, again, I'm
using the REST template. I still have the
same JSON map. And I go out and create
it. In this time, you can see here on
line 85, see how it responds back with a
customer URL. We are gonna parse out the
we're basically gonna split the string
on the slashes and parse out the third
value, which gives me the ID value. In
this case, I'm gonna go back and do
another put. I'm doing a put against that
API, and again, I'm doing that same map
object. But this time now, I'm doing
Michael Weston, with a space 2 after it
so we can see that. Go ahead and run this
next. Let me expand this up a little bit
so we can see that we did go out. We
created a new customer. And we can see
here, I'll highlight this. Here, we can see
that we did get created a customer of
368, just Michael Westen.
Now after my update, you can see up here,
I did the put. Right here I did the put
request and then we put the space 2
after. So we might have Michael space 2
Weston space 2. So the update did in
fact take a place against the server. Now
they also have and this is kind of an
unusual, they also have a patch method.
And that this is a valid way of updating
data, where you can do a patch and post
data or put data against the server to
update a resource perfectly valid. I
don't see that used too often. Usually
just have put or post and that's
perfectly valid. But in this case, they
did provide the patch method. And I want
to show you something here, because I
learned a little bit setting this up.
So if I run this right here, I'm gonna go
ahead and run that. And that's gonna
pass by I'm gonna toss an exception. Nope.
Let's see here and get that.
I'll see that actual exception did
get thrown. So now, we can see that we're
getting an IO error. What's
happening, I did a little research on
this in this underlying library for the
HTTP connection that son is providing.
This was probably pretty old stuff. It
doesn't support the patch method. So
after a little bit of research, what I
had to do is come in, I'll show you the
dependency I added, I had in this HTG
components or HTTP client from Apache,
that does support it. And I'll show you
how we wire up the example here. So it
claps this guy, and this is the one that
is fixed. And here, we have this HTTP
components request factory and we wire
that right into the rest template. So
there's actually probably a half
dozen different HTTP client libraries
that we can select from in the Java
world the Pachi one is pretty solid. And
there's other ones I'm not going to get
into a debate about which one's better
and what not. But the point here is,
I'm actually going to leave you a issue
request. If you want to look up this
issue further you can go to this URL. But
here, I am taking the REST template
I'm wiring in that library. And this will
work as expected. So this is gonna use
the HTTP patch method to update the
client. So we can see, we had a variety of
chatter coming out of those but we did
get Sam axe from Burn Notice. We can see
here down at the bottom of the screen, he
has in fact been updated. Now the last
thing that we want to take a look at is
to delete a customer.
So we are going to take Les Claypool,
famous bass player from Primus, and we're
gonna add them and delete him. So let's
go ahead and run this. And let me step
you through this here on 182, I'm saying
I want a client exception and that's
because here on 211, I'm gonna go back
and get that by ID and I'm expecting
that to toss a 404 error. So let's go
ahead and run this. So we're gonna create
Les Claypool, then we're gonna go delete
Les Claypool, and then we'll read him
again and expect that to fail. So you can
see here, that we did get them created on
372, and then we want to go back and read
372. And we can see that, we got a 404
error. So right here, you can see that we
went to go get the data for 372
and that resulted in a 404 error. So
that in fact shows that we exercised API
three times there. We created them, we
deleted them, and then we asked to read
them again, and that did in fact fail. So
these are a variety of different use
cases with the REST template. I do
want you to look over this here because
coming up in the course, we are going to
actually I think I'm going to just
recreate this so we can start modeling
our own REST API. So in this part of
course, I want to get you comfortable
consuming REST API. It feels a little
easier to consume them, and then when you
create them, you're able to use them.
And coming up in the course, we are
definitely going to get into Swagger.
We'll set all this up and we'll show you
a lot of different things using REST APIs.